Raising Equity
InvestmentBy MSMEsA Guide for
Raising Equity
Investment
By MSMEsA Guide for
3 Contents | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Exit RouteSECTION 4
Success StoriesSECTION 5 462 Contents | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
MSME BackgroundContents
What is MSME
MSME & Investment Lifecycle SECTION 1 6
Sources of Funds Sources of Funds for MSMEDebt FinancingEquity FinancingDebt vs. Equity FinancingSECTION 2 10Equity Funding Sources of Equity Funding Government of India
Initiatives for VC Industry
State Government InitiativesLeading MSME VC & PE InvestorsAdvantages of Equity FundingProcess of Equity FundingPitch for Equity FundingValuationTerm SheetDue DiligenceImportant issues in preparing
for the Equity Fund Raising
Investor RelationshipSECTION 3
4418driven by inadequate interaction between 
MSMEs and equity providers. 
‘A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by 
MSMEs’ is an attempt to bridge the distance between MSMEs and equity providers. The guide provides a step by step process for MSMEs to prepare themselves for equity investment by discerning investors. MSMEs can beneﬁt from the information that has been brought into this concise document, including potential sources of funding and successful experience sharing of entrepreneurs. 
I hope MSMEs will be able to make the best 
out of this guide in their aspiring growth journey. 
Manoj Mittal
Deputy Managing Director
SIDBI
A. K. Sharma
SecretaryMSMEs will have to dream and act big for India to take its rightful place in the global economy. Accordingly, the MSMEs will need to go for substantial equity infusion for enhancing their debt absorbing as well as risk taking capacity. 
As part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the Government has announced various 
measures for MSMEs including Debt, Sub-debt and equity ﬁnancing Schemes. However, in order to avail the beneﬁts from the equity/equity like schemes, there needs to be greater understanding amongst MSMEs about the pros and cons of equity ﬁnancing. Moreover, Government schemes can only work as catalyst in creating an active ecosystem with participation from discerning private investors. Partnering with experienced equity investors who can handhold MSMEs in their growth journey, can lead to better corporate governance, technology upgradation and market expansion.
Against this backdrop, the initiatives of SIDBI Venture Capital Ltd. (SVCL), a wholly 
owned subsidiary of SIDBI, to bring out ‘A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs’ is apt and very timely. The guide elucidates various issues of equity ﬁnancing in an easy to understand and relatable way. I would encourage MSMEs to take advantage of this guide and prepare themselves for raising equity investment and partner with investors for a bright future, better growth and for creating value for all stakeholders.
I am also happy to note that the guide would be published in other regional languages. 
Once again, I congratulate the SVCL and SIDBI team for taking this noble initiative and wish them all success.Finance is lifeblood of any business, MSMEs being no exception. While there has been substantial improvement in the availability of debt capital 
for MSMEs from formal institutional sources in India, the access to equity and equity like capital has continued to elude them. 
Both demand and supply side factors have 
contributed to constrict ﬂow of equity to MSMEs. The demand side constraints have largely been driven by misconceived notions in the minds of MSMEs such as fear of losing ownership control, compulsion for more disclosure, ceding seats on boards to the investors, etc. On the supply side, there have been challenges of having access to appropriate information and awareness 
The Government of India, in recent past, has taken several initiatives to strengthen MSMEs to realise the avowed goal of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” . One 
of the key areas of thrust has been facilitating access to equity capital to MSMEs through Fund of Funds operations. While access to debt capital has been well streamlined and understood by MSMEs, the awareness regarding equity capital has generally been limited among MSMEs. It is felt that there is need for an organised effort to enhance the awareness regarding equity capital among MSMEs.
‘A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs’ is a step in the right direction to 
guide MSMEs to prepare themselves and raise equity investment to face a globalised market. The guide sets out succinctly the major issues as well the steps involved in the equity fund raise process. I am sure the booklet will be of immense help to the MSMEs and encourage them to access the equity fund raising market.
I congratulate SVCL and SIDBI for 
publishing this booklet and hope that it will encourage next generation MSME entrepreneurs to grow manifold.
Dr. Archana Hingorani
Managing Partner
Siana Capital Management LLP7 MSME Background | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Revised classiﬁcation of MSME applicable w.e.f 1st July 2020
as per the notiﬁcation published in the Gazette of India
Source: https://msme.gov.in/know-about-msmeComposite Criteria:
Investment in Plant & Machinery/Equipment and Annual TurnoverMSME
Investment in Plant and Machinery or Equipment:Not more than Rs. 1 crore 
Annual Turnover:
Not more than Rs. 5 croreMICRO
Investment in Plant and Machinery or Equipment:Not more than Rs. 10 crore 
Annual Turnover:
Not more than Rs. 50 croreSMALL
Investment in Plant and Machinery or Equipment:Not more than Rs. 50 crore 
Annual Turnover:
Not more than Rs. 250 croreMEDIUMWhat is
MSME?
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise 9 MSME Background | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Self, Friends & Relatives Funding
Initial investment by founder
Angel Funding / Seed Funding
Individual or entities with surplus cashEARLY STAGE
Banks/Financial InstitutionsTerm Loans and Working Capital Loans
Venture Capital / Private Equity
Equity infusion leads to higher networth and can be 
used to leverage debt
Equity investor can be a partner to rely on and 
should be of sound reputation
Partner can improve systems and processes to 
beneﬁt the business in the long run and help to build valueGROWTH /
EXPANSIONSTAGE
Initial Public Offer
Expansion of business by raising funds from public. Exit opportunity for existing investors.Equity Funding & Acquisitions. Listing on NSE Emerge & BSE platform.MATURE STAGE8 MSME Background | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
MSME &
InvestmentLifecycleMedium Medium
or
FixedMedium11 Sources of Funds | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Sources
of FundsThere are several funding options emerging in India and entrepreneurs can 
explore to raise funding from alternative sources to meet their requirements. Some of the sources available for exploration are as follows:
AMOUNT
A V AILABLECOST OF
FUNDINGA V AILABLE
RESOURCESISSUES
SELF
FUNDING
FAMILY &
FRIENDS
INTERNAL
ACCRUALFROMBUSINESS
LOANS OR
DEBTS
EQUITY
INVESTORAmount may not be 
available in sufﬁcient 
quantity
Process may be fast but 
smaller amounts from 
many individuals may 
prove difﬁcult to manage
Amount may not be 
sufﬁcient and may not be 
available when needed 
most
Loans process faster than 
friends and family but 
lenders may demand 
security such as property 
etc. Strict terms of 
repayment exists.
Relatively longer time. 
Investor would be a 
shareholder.
High expectations of 
growth and ﬁnancial 
returns. Joint decisions 
with the equity partner 
with respect to major (not 
day-to-day) issues Very Limited Very Low Very Limited
Limited Low Limited
Limited Low Limited
High Variable Medium13 Sources of Funds | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Debt
Financing
NEW AGE
FINTECH
PLATFORMSVENTURE
DEBTBONDS &
DEBENTURESBANK OR 
NBFC’S
LOANS
The company can issue bonds/debentures to qualiﬁed 
institutional buyers/ retail investors. However, the same involves signiﬁcant compliance costs as compared to other sources of debt.
New Age Fintech Platforms also provide an alternative to 
MSME companies  to raise debt. The cost of debt in such a case may be higher than traditional sources.BONDS & DEBENTURES
FINTECH PLATFORMSThe traditional way of generating debt funds is by 
procuring loan from ﬁnancial institutions such as Banks & NBFCs for general purpose or to meet working capital requirements. Such debt ﬁnancing would include general purpose borrowing, equipment ﬁnance, working capital ﬁnancing such as factoring (recourse & non-recourse) etc.
Debt ﬁnancing solutions provided to early stage enterpris-
es without collateral and equity dilution. Generally, venture debt has a higher cost of interest as compared to other debt sources.LOANS FROM BANKS/NBFCS
VENTURE DEBTDebt Financing/uni00A0means when a ﬁrm raises money for working capital or 
capital expenditures through means of ﬁnancial instruments such as debentures or bonds (with or without embedded conversion and other options) or through other means such as equipment ﬁnance loans, general purpose corporate loans etc. Debt ﬁnancing typically has a ﬁxed/ﬂoating interest liability with a deﬁned repayment tenure. 15 Sources of Funds | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Equity
FinancingEquity ﬁnancing means the raising of 
capital through sale of shares i.e. providing the investor an ownership interest in the company. 
Generally, equity ﬁnancing involves 
allocation of ordinary equity shares to the investors. However, quasi equity instruments such as convertible preference shares, warrants and convertible debentures may also be used as a quasi equity instrument to raise equity ﬁnancing.The investment could be by way of only one such instrument or it could be a mixture of such instruments.
The valuation could be ﬁxed at the time of 
investment or it could be in convertible instruments, where valuation could be pegged to a milestone.
While debt would generally have a ﬁxed 
cost, equity does not. At the same time, because of the higher risk, the expectations of return from equity investment are higher.
Equity shares are also known as
Ordinary shares or as Owned Capital
EQUITY SHARESEQUITY & QUASI EQUITY INSTRUMENTS
Cumulative/Non-Cumulative
Redeemable/Non-RedeemableParticipating/Non-ParticipatingConvertible/Non-ConvertiblePreference shares with Call/Put OptionPREFERENCE
SHARES
Secured/Unsecured
Redeemable/Non-RedeemableConvertible/Non-ConvertibleDEBENTURES17 Sources of Funds | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Debt
Financing
Equity
FinancingV/S
The decision to raise equity or debt ﬁnancing would involve a trade off 
based on the company’s current and targeted debt-equity ratio. Further, it would also be a decision based on the ability of the company to access such source of funding while maximizing the return to its investors. Various other factors such as willingness to dilute the ownership, additional cost of compliance with equity funding, commitment to existing lenders and investors, the credit rating of the company, the end use of the funds etc. are considered in deciding the source of ﬁnancing. DEBT EQUITY
OWNERSHIP
REPAYMENTMANAGEMENT
INFLUENCE
OBLIGATIONS
CLAIMS ON
INCOME &
ASSETSDilution of ownership 
interest in the businessNo dilution of ownership
interest in the business
Equity shareholders have
voting rights along with rights
to board representation.None, unless some special
conditions have been agreed on.
Stock has no maturity date 
No obligation to pay dividendsDebt has a maturity date
Payment of Interest & Repayment
of Principal according to
ﬁxed schedule
Subordinate to Debt Senior to Equity
COST Generally cost of equity is in
proportion to the risk return proﬁle
of the company as Equity investor
have residual interest in the company.Generally cost of debt is cheaper
as they have priority in repayment
over Equity shareholders.COLLATERAL No Collateral  Collateral dependent
TAX BENEFITS No tax beneﬁts T ax shield on interest payments19 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Sources
of Equity
FundingEquity Financing refers to supplying 
capital to an enterprise in return for an ownership share in it. 
Equity Investors can be broadly classiﬁed 
into three  categories, based on the lifecycle stage of MSME they invest into:
Although organized VC/PE funds have 
been investing in India for over 25 years, the MSME sector continues to be underserved by formal external equity. 
Equity as a source of ﬁnancing is under utilized and the prevalence of investment by venture capital and angel investors is low when compared to other countries. MSMEs in India generally rely on friends & family as sources of equity.Venture Capital and Alternative Invest-ment Funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India can be found at the links given below:
https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi-
web/other/OtherAction.do?doRecog-
nisedFpi=yes&intmId=21
https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi-
web/other/OtherAction.do?doRecog-
nisedFpi=yes&intmId=16
Indian Private Equity & Venture Capital 
Association (IVCA) provides information about their members, including venture capital and private equity ﬁrms as well as knowledge partners. This can be accessed at the link below:
https://ivca.in/our-members/Invests in Growth and Mature Stages and 
invest a larger ticket sizePRIV ATE EQUITY FIRMSInvests in Early Stage MSMEs and ticket 
size is relatively small
Invests in Breakeven stages, normally 
known as quasi-equity ﬁnanceANGEL INVESTORS
VENTURE CAPITAL FIRMS21 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Government
of IndiaInitiativesfor VCIndustryUnder the Startup India program, the Government created the FFS with a corpus of /uni20B9 10,000 
crore to provide funding support for Startups, over a period of XIV and XV Finance commis-sion cycles. The Fund was set up with the approval of Union Cabinet in June 2016. 
The operational guidelines were issued as per Cabinet approval.  The FFS is managed by 
Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) and contributes to the corpus of Alterna-tive Investment Funds (AIFs) for investing in equity and equity linked instruments of various Startups.FUND OF FUNDS FOR STARTUPS (FFS)
With Government intervention, the SRI Fund scheme would be able to channelise diverse 
variety of funds into underserved MSMEs and address the growth needs of viable and high growth MSMEs. 
SRI Fund, in the form of Fund of Funds (FoF), will be oriented towards providing funding 
support to the Daughter Funds for onward provision to MSMEs as growth capital, in the form of equity or quasi-equity, for : 
Enhancing equity/equity like ﬁnancing to MSMEs and listing of MSMEs on Stock Exchanges
Supporting faster growth of MSME Businesses and thereby ignite the economy and 
create employment opportunities;
Supporting enterprises which have the potential to graduate beyond the MSME 
bracket and become National / International Champions;
Supporting MSMEs which help make India self-reliant by producing relevant 
technologies, goods and services. 
SRI Fund is a Fund of Funds with initial support from Government of Rs. 10,000 crore, which will be further leveraged to Rs. 50,000 crore.SELF-RELIANT INDIA FUND (SRI FUND)Ministry of MSME
Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium EnterprisesGovernment of India
Ministry of FinanceGovernment of India
DPIIT
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal TradeMinistry of Commerce & IndustryGovernment of India23 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
State
GovernmentInitiativesBhamashah Techno Fund of /uni20B9 500 Crores for Startups has been introduced to 
give an open sky to the potential Start-ups of the state of Rajasthan.
Government of Uttar Pradesh has established a UP Startup Fund with a 
corpus size of /uni20B9 1,000 crore. RAJASTHAN
UTTAR PRADESH
Government of Bihar has created Bihar Startup Fund Trust with a corpus of 
/uni20B9 500 crore for funding Startups. BIHAR
Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), the nodal agency for Startup initiative in Kerala is partnering with SEBI accredited Venture Capital Funds for the creation of corpus fund for supporting the emerging startups in the State.KERALAGVFL Ltd., supported by the State Government of Gujarat is one of the oldest venture funds in the country.
Government of Karnataka has operationalised fund of funds for investing in 
venture funds that invest in Startups in various sectors. Following Venture capital funds have been launched in the State with key focus on selected sectors:
Karnataka Semiconductor Venture Capital Fund (KARSEMVEN Fund) with /uni20B9 93 crore
KITVEN 3 (Bio-tech) with /uni20B9 50 crore
KITVEN 4 (Animation Visual Effects Gaming and Comics) with
/uni20B9 20 crore GUJARAT
KARNATAKA25 24 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Leading
MSME VC &PE InvestorsAavishkaar
BanyanTree Growth CapitalDSG Consumer Partners
Everstone Capital
Fireside VenturesGVFL Ltd.IFCI Venture Capital Funds Ltd.InvAscent Capital Partners
Karnataka Asset Management Co. Pvt. Ltd.
Kedaara CapitalKotak Private EquityLGT Lightstone AspadaLighthouse Advisors India Pvt. Ltd.
Matrix Partners India
Motilal OswalNABVENTURES Ltd.NorwestOrbimed
Rabo Equity
Rajasthan Asset Management Co. Pvt. Ltd.SBICAP Ventures Ltd. (Neev Fund) Sequoia Capital IndiaSIDBI Venture Capital Ltd.Sixth Sense Ventures
Somerset Indus Capital Partnershttps://www.aavishkaarcapital.in/ 
http://banyantreeﬁnance.com/index.php 
https://dsgcp.com/ 
https://www.everstonecapital.com/ 
https://ﬁresideventures.com/ 
http://www.gvﬂ.com/ 
http://www.ifciventure.com/ 
https://www.invascent.com/ 
http://www.kitven.com/ 
http://www.kedaara.com/index.html 
https://alternateassets.kotak.com/
kotak-private-equity-fund.php 
https://www.aspada.com/ 
http://www.lhfunds.com/index.html 
https://www.matrixpartners.in/ 
https://www.motilaloswalgroup.com/
Our-Businesses/Private-Equity 
https://nabventures.in/ 
https://www.nvp.com/india/ 
http://www.orbimed.com/en 
https://www.raboequity.com/index.php 
http://www.rvcf.org/ 
https://sbicapventures.com/neev_fund/ 
https://www.sequoiacap.com/india/ 
www.sidbiventure.co.in
http://www.sixth-sense.in/ 
http://www.somersetinduscap.com/ 27 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Possible new opportunities with no ﬁxed 
repayment obligation on the companyWith equity ﬁnancing, you might form informal partnerships with more knowledgeable or experienced individuals. Some might be well-connected, allowing your business to potentially beneﬁt from their knowledge and their business network.
Investors are often prepared to provide follow-up funding as 
the business grows.LEARN AND GAIN FROM PARTNERS
FOLLOW UP FUNDING
As compared to raising debt, equity funding does not have to be 
dependent on any security or collateral in order to raise funds but is based on business plans and revenue models.NO COLLATERALWith equity ﬁnancing, there is no loan to repay. The business does not have to make a monthly loan payment which can be particularly important if the business does not initially generate a proﬁt. This in turn, gives the freedom to channel more money into a growing business.LESS BURDEN
Advantages
of Equity
Funding29 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Appointing advisors / consultants if required, to advise 
and guide the company on the process of equity raising
Prepare business planIdentify and approach the investors.Identify and position key selling pointsVendor Due Diligence(This process takes usually 2-6 months)Preparation of Pitch/
Preliminary DueDiligence
Preliminary meetings with investors
Procuring term sheetsPreliminary Due Diligence Prepare proposed valuationsNegotiate valuation & other terms(This process takes up to 2-3 months.)Evaluation &
Negotiation
Evaluate proposed ﬁnancial structures
Signing deﬁnitive purchase & sale agreements for 
Equity subscription and Shareholders agreement. 
(This process takes 1 month depending upon time 
taken for negotiations.)Execution & Closing
Post Compliances Post compliance with conditions given, funds are 
drawn down from the investors.
(This usually takes 1 month depending on time taken 
for compliances)Process
of Equity
Funding31 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
The company should elaborate on its capital structure and its 
capital requirements for the future. The company should give information on how the proceeds will be utilised for expansion purposes.
Give information pertaining to  the company, its legal form of 
operation, when it was formed/incorporated, the principal stakeholders and key personnel of the company.FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
BUSINESS POSITION
The company has to provide information about its achievement 
of various milestones and the developments within the company that are essential to the success of the business.MAJOR MILESTONESThe business plan should provide the evolution of the company. The business concept needs to be described, including its product and market it is going to serve. It should elaborate on its key revenue generating segments and future plans.
The business plan should provide historic ﬁnancial data for 
analysis purpose. This mainly involves elaborating on important ﬁnancial points of the business including sales, proﬁts, cash ﬂows and return on investment.BUSINESS BACKGROUND
FINANCIAL FEATURES
Elements
of Business
Plan33 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Pitch
for Equity
Funding
Business Pitch is a presentation by one or 
more people to an investor or group of investors for raising equity.
Pitch should generally have the following 
structure in order to pitch for ﬁnancing:
Introduction
Core Team The Business ModelValuation and the amount of
Investment required
Key MilestonesStrategy to achieve key milestoneCompetitive positionThe business exit strategy
While preparing the pitch, the company 
should also assess the objectives of the investor and the company’s key selling points including its ﬁnancial ratios. An investor while making an investment decision, does careful analysis of ﬁnancial parameters to ﬁnd out true worth of the company. This can be done by examining the company’s P&L account, balance sheet and cash ﬂow statements. Therefore, an investor shall use the ﬁnancial ratios as a guide to know more about the company. Similarly, the company can use these ratios to market itself to the investors. Some key ratios are as follows:.
Price/Earnings Ratio
PEG RatioPrice/Sales RatioPrice/Book Ratio
Useful to value the company depending on 
the industry.PRICE RATIOS
Return on Assets
Return on EquityNet Proﬁt Margin
Used to assess the proﬁtability of the entity 
vis a vis its revenue or assets or equity employed.PROFITABILITY RATIOS
Debt to Equity or
Debt to Capital Ratio
Debt to Assets RatioDebt to EBITDA Ratio
Used  to assess the capital structure/ﬁxed 
payment obligations of the companyLEVERAGE RATIOS
Asset Turnover Ratio
Inventory Turnover RatioReceivable Turnover Ratio
Determines how well the assets employed 
are utilised in the business.EFFICIENCY RATIOSCurrent Ratio
Quick RatioInterest Coverage RatioDebt Service Coverage Ratio
Helpful to assess the short term cash 
ﬂow/working capital position to meet short term liquidity needs.LIQUIDITY RATIOSAnalyse your
Company34 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Financial ratios are dynamic and
Vary from time to time 
Vary depending on the industry May be affected by business factors 
such as seasonality 
Shall be affected due to change in 
accounting policy/methods
Therefore a company must adjust for such factors in its analysis if it substantially affects the output.Financial Ratios are also useful for
Trend Analysis: Analyse for patterns in historical and the projected period.
Benchmarking: Compare with 
companies in the similar industry and with similar sizeAnalyse your
Company35 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Key
Considerations
of Equity
InvestorsGROWTH
PROSPECTS
INDUSTRY
OUTLOOKMANAGEMENT
TEAM
ROBUSTNESS
OF BUSINESS
MODELCompetitive landscape
Strong product developmentHigh barriers to entryMultiple markets and products
ExperienceCommitmentAlignment with investorsExecution capability
Changing customer preferencesPresence of disruptive technologiesIndustry growth prospectsRegulatory issues
Large customer baseStrong supply chainStable and recurring cash ﬂowsLow capital expenditure requirementsWhat Investors
Look ForObjectives of
the Investor
Key Considerations of Equity Investors - 
What Investors Look For36 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Investors are interested in investment opportunities, which are generally expected to provide a target return. The main idea is to ensure that the companies are able to perform so well that returns follow naturally from their growth and operations.“The primary objective of 
the investors is to generate superior returns and therefore they look to identify and invest in proﬁtable and scalable business ventures including innovative business model or new products & technologies.”Investment decisions are generally based 
on fundamentals of the company. Generally, investors are likely to aim to take signiﬁcant minority stakes based on total investment in an investee companyand would look to play an impactful and active role with representation on the board of directors of such investee companies in order to help create value for such company. A few investors may like to also take majority ownership stake.
Investors would discuss with the company and agree on a well-deﬁned exit path for the investor after the period of investment is over. Exit alternatives generally include:
sale of investor’s stake to another 
investor; 
sale of company / investor’s stake 
to a strategic buyer;
buyback of investor’s stake by 
entrepreneur/promoter/company; 
stock exchange listing.The higher the valuation, the less dilution 
the entrepreneur will have to encounter.The lower the valuation, the investor will have more upside potential and less risk, creating a higher motivation for the investor to assist in the company.
Valuation of an enterprise could be done by any one method or a combination of methods. A business could be valued by sales revenue multiple, EBITDA multiple, net proﬁt multiple, discounted cash ﬂow, book value etc.
For example, if an enterprise has achieved a 
net proﬁt of Rs. y crore, the investor may value it by a multiple of x times of its net proﬁt, resulting in an equity value of Rs. xy crore. The following page provides two of the most popular valuation methods which are preferred by equity investors while valuing a company.A business valuation is a general process of determining the economic value of a whole business or company unit.
The valuation put on the business is a critical issue for both the entrepreneur and the investor.The key factors that will go into a determination of valuation include:
The experience and past success of 
the founders
Future projections of the companyThe market size of the company’s 
business
Company’s progress towards a viable 
product
The recurring revenue opportunity 
of the business model
Valuations of comparable companiesEconomic environmentValuation39 38 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Valuation
Methods
Discounted Cash Flow Method:
While using the Discounted Cash Flows 
or Earnings (of Underlying Business) valuation technique to estimate the Fair Value of an Investment, the Enterprise Value of the Investee company is derived by using reasonable assumptions and estimations of expected future cash ﬂows (or expected future earnings) and the terminal value. 
The said cash ﬂows are discounted to 
the present by applying the appropriate risk-adjusted rate that captures the risk inherent in the projections.
The Enterprise Value is then adjusted 
for surplus or non-operating assets or excess liabilities and other contingencies and relevant factors to derive an Adjusted Enterprise Value for the Investee Company.Financial Projections
Free Cash Flow to Firm
Discounting Factor
Enterprise Value
Adjustments for
Debt, Cash and Surplus Assets,
if any
Business ValueExplicit Period Terminal ValueComparable Companies Method:
The value is determined on the basis of 
multiples derived from valuations of comparable companies, as manifest through stock market valuations of listed companies.
This valuation is based on the principle 
that market valuations, taking place between informed buyers and informed sellers, incorporate all factors relevant to valuation. Relevant multiples need to be chosen carefully and adjusted for differences between the circumstances.
To the value of the business so arrived, 
adjustments need to be made for the value of contingent assets/liabilities, surplus asset and dues payable to Preference Shareholders, if any, in order to arrive at the value for equity shareholders.Revenue / EBITDA 
Industry Revenue / EBITDA multiple
Enterprise Value
Adjustments for
Debt, Cash and Surplus Assets,
if any
Business ValueEquity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs41
Due
Diligence
After the investor has gone through the 
business plan, there would be multiple rounds of meetings with the promoters and the management team. The investor would take up internal processes for deciding on making the investment. If investor decides on going ahead with the investment, it would provide a term sheet setting out the major terms of investment including amount, valuation, instruments and rights of the investor. 
The entrepreneur may then want to understand the term sheet and negotiate some of the clauses, if required, with the investor. After the terms are agreed upon, the company may formally accept the terms and proceed ahead with other steps such as third party due diligence.If the due diligence exercise is satisfactory, the investor may then go ahead with the investment. Prior to disbursement of funds, promoters will be required to execute all the documents stipulated under the terms of investment, including Shareholders’ Agreement / Subscription Agreement etc. and comply with the conditions precedent to the investment. The company would need to evaluate the investor and the term sheet based on
Reputation 
Investment objectives and eligibility 
criteria
Fund life and exit time horizonExperience in MSME investing and 
past record in handling MSME companies
Amount of investment, valuation 
and rights asked for by investor
Experience of investing in company’s 
particular industry
Active or passive roleDue Diligence is an audit or investigation 
conducted by a third-party ﬁnancial expert and reviews all ﬁnancial records of the company. It is a ﬁnal  precautionary measure undertaken before entering into an agreement. Due diligence can be either done by the company (sell side) or investor (buy side).
Due Diligence by the Company (referred to as Sell side or Mock DD or Vendor DD)
Typically, prior to equity ﬁnancing, 
the company itself may initiate a due diligence (called vendor due diligence) which should involve a full due diligence of the company.
A strong focus is on the ﬁnancial 
business drivers that determine the future results.
Vendor (sell-side) due diligence will 
increase the quality of the offers received and maximize the value of a business./uni00A0
Due Diligence by the Investor (referred to as 
Buy side DD)
Similarly, the investor may initiate 
buy side due diligence which generally involves an investigation and analysis to assess the investment suitability and the key issues facing the company.
The strong focus is on the ﬁnancial 
business drivers that determine the historic and projected results. Buy-side due diligence runs through all business areas of a company.
The objectives of buy-side due diligence are:
To get a detailed understanding of the company 
To get an understanding of possible 
risks in all areas of the company
Assess the competency of managers 
and senior business leaders
To identify business drivers that will 
be critical to the future success of the company
To get input for future legal 
documentsEquity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
The
Term
Sheet43 42 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
The due diligence process can uncover 
inconsistencies in the processes of the business, including compliances with regulatory ﬁlings, secretarial ﬁlings, payment of taxes, contracts and agreement, delays and defaults, contingencies etc. 
The cost and time incurred for this exercise is relatively less compared to the beneﬁts. 
To fasten the due diligence process, the company can create a data room, which can be either physical or a virtual online one. Access to this data can be provided to the investor and the third-party ﬁnancial agency which is undertaking the process.Ongoing or historical delinquencies with lenders / ﬁnancial institutions / banks and historical issues of a legal nature, especially of a criminal nature are likely to lead to discomfort.
Once these are brought to light, a process of setting them right has to be put in place, for the long-term effectiveness of the business. The due diligence process should generally include introducing written procedures / checklists / standard operating procedures etc. Typically, some MSMEs may not have it in place at all. It may also include human resource related contracts and agreements with senior staff such as conﬁdentiality and non-compete agreements etc. This makes the business more attractive and valuable. Therefore, when the fund-raising is being undertaken, the buyer / investor will not enter into further negotiations as the issues would have been resolved or would be in the process of being resolved. This also reduces the risk for the investor. A clean track record shows investors that the promoters are credible as entrepreneurs and have intentions of sticking around and running the business in compliance with the laws.Due Diligence:
Adding ValueDue Diligence:
How to be Prepared?
Due diligence may typically be a painful process for MSMEs. Company management may be very conﬁdent  of completing the entire process in a short time. However, that is usually not the case as it can be time consuming and may cover a wide range of issues and areas such as given below.
Due diligence process is not a fault-ﬁnding process. It also includes rectiﬁcation of non-compliances and improvement in systems. This is ultimately to the beneﬁt of the company.It pays to be prepared, by setting the house in order, before commencement of the process. Depending on the level of preparedness of the company, the time taken to complete the due diligence would vary. Company management could keep the following in mind while preparing for due diligence:
Having adequate internal systems 
for data capture, storage and retrieval. 
Be up to date with compliances 
regarding corporate governance, secretarial and regulatory issues.
Have  adequate number of quality 
personnel to interact with the due 
diligence teams to understand their data requirements and provide the information in speciﬁc formats.
TYPES AND AREAS OF DUE DILIGENCE
Commercial
Financial
TaxLegal
Strategic
Environmental
Human ResourcesEquity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs45 44 Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Important Issues
In Preparing forThe Equity FundRaisingInvestor
Relationship
Investors look to invest in enterprises that:
Are open to change 
Are willing to accept strategic and 
operational support in order to achieve rapid growth.
Investors would generally have the option 
for a nominee director and/or an observer on the board of directors of the company. Investor would insist on regular board meetings with the presence of investor nominee. 
Important decisions would need investor 
approval such as business strategy, hiring at senior level, employee compensation policies, raising debt or equity and large contracts etc.
Investors would want to spend signiﬁcant 
time in developing a relationship with each company, which may go a long way in creating value and help face future challenges.
Investors may provide signiﬁcant help in 
building appropriate systems and processes, putting up a strong top management team, managing team aspirations, smooth and fast execution of projects. Being fully prepared for the entire exercise can reduce the time taken. Company management should analyse the following risks and prepare accordingly:
Equity raising exercise being 
undertaken for the ﬁrst time – no experience
Lack of clarity in strategy, objectives, 
business plan
Business lacks growth potential / 
may not be able to generate returns as per investor’s requirement 
Fund raising process started at the 
last moment when the business is in urgent need of funds
Delays in providing information to 
the investor as promoters may be simultaneously running the business as well as coordinating with potential investors
Advisors appointed by the company 
for the fund-raising exercise are inexperienced
The entire process may also have certain 
expenses by way of advisors’ fee, travel, cost of compliances etc. which may have to be borne by the company.Investors would generally require :
The enterprise to be a company form 
of organisation. If it is a proprietorship or partnership, it may need to be converted into a company or its business to be transferred to a company. A company structure is generally required to facilitate the fund raising by way of subscription to equity or quasi equity. 
A functional board of directors.An organisation structure for the 
management team, with roles and responsibilities clearly deﬁned. 
A strong ﬁnance team, to provide 
reliable data, in formats required by the investors, during the fund-raising process. The ﬁnance team would help in effective ﬁnancial reporting and analyses, cash ﬂow management, cost optimisation, proper maintenance of books of accounts.Share proﬁt: Investors will expect a share of 
the proﬁts. However, it could be a worthwhile trade-off if beneﬁting from the value they bring as ﬁnancial backers and/or their business acumen and experience.
Perceived loss of control: As most entrepreneurs would have been running their enterprise independently, they might feel uncomfortable with the rights required by investors. However, as ﬁnancial investors would generally take a minority stake in the company, they would not be running the operations (except in majority ownership by investors). The investor needs to be taken into conﬁdence for major business decisions. The investor’s prime interest would be in exiting the investment at a later date and making a proﬁt from their investment.
Potential conﬂict: Sharing ownership and having to take the investor along in major decisions could lead to stresses if there are differences in vision, management style and ways of running the business. It can be an issue to consider carefully and thrashing out while negotiating the terms with the investor. At the same time, the promoters can expect the investor to be a partner and good sounding board while taking major decisions.
Time consuming: Raising equity ﬁnance is/uni00A0demanding, time consuming and may be costly. It may take management focus away from the core business activities during the fund-raising exercise (short-term). This exercise would however be to the long-term beneﬁt of the business once equity is raised.Equity Funding | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEsExit
Route47 Exit Route | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
The investors will sell their stake in the business to another private equity ﬁrm.
This is an exit strategy where the management or the promoters of the company buy back 
the equity stake from the investors. SECONDARY SALE
REPURCHASE BY THE PROMOTERS
Buyback/uni00A0is one of the ways by which a/uni00A0company/uni00A0provides an/uni00A0exit route to the shareholders by 
purchasing their shares./uni00A0COMPANY BUYBACK
This is the least favourable option but sometimes will have to be used if the promoters of the 
company and the investors have not been able to successfully run the business.LIQUIDATIONOne of the ways to exit is to come out with an Initial Public Offering of the company and 
raise fresh funding, as a part of the IPO to the public. Investor may sell their shares in the IPO or sell their shares after the company gets listed and the shares start trading on the exchange. 
Strategic acquisition or trade sale, where the company invested in is sold to another suitable 
company. This is one of the exit routes for private equity funds. The buyer will usually have a strategic advantage in acquiring this business as they may complement each other. For this reason, the buyer will often pay a premium to acquire such a business.INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER (IPO)
STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONEquity investors usually have an investment horizon of 5-7 years and plan 
to exit after that, making a substantial proﬁt on their investment. There are many exit strategies that institutional equity investors can use to ofﬂoad their investment. The following are the exit routes for the equity investors:49
Success
Stories
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited was 
established in 1992 as the ﬁrst dematerialized electronic exchange in the country. Its SME platform is known as NSE Emerge
https://www1.nseindia.com/emerge/
The BSE Ltd. was established in 1875 and it is Asia's oldest 
stock exchange. Its SME platform is known as the BSE SME Platform
https://www.bsesme.com/index.aspx
These platforms can provide exit route to the investor.
Some success stories of listing on these platforms are provided in the following pages.The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. and the BSE Ltd. 
(formerly Bombay Stock Exchange) are leading stock exchanges in India and offer platforms for listing of SMEs.
NSE EMERGE
BSE SME
Success Stories | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEsIn FY 2012, the company had two small 
subsidiaries in Saudi Arabia and Australia. Today, in FY 2020 the company has global presence with four subsidiaries in Saudi Arabia, Australia, Brazil and Chile. 
“We raised capital through 
IPO in 2012 and became the ﬁrst company to list on NSE-EMERGE.  Apart from raising the funds, listing helped us to upgrade our Governance and adopt best practices, which has its own value.  Listing has also improved the proﬁle of our Company.”
- K.J. Joseph and Thomas John, Promoters, 
V.A. George Managing Director, Thejo 
Engineering Limited51 Success Stories | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Thejo
EngineeringLimited
0350
300
250
200
150
100
50INR CRORES138.92304.49
7.8130.36
TOTAL REVENUE PROFIT AFTER TAXFY 2019-20FY 2012-13 Growth in the company post raising equity 
from FY 2013 to FY 2020
0350
300
250
200
150
100
50INR CRORES
SEP 18 2012 AUG 31 2020Approximate Market Capitalisation MARKET CAPITALISATION
70260Thejo Engineering Limited was incorporated in 1974 as a partnership ﬁrm at Gudur, T amil Nadu between Shri K.J. Joseph and Shri Thomas John. It became a Public Limited Company in 2008. It is currently based in Chennai with manufacturing facility at Ponneri.
The company was into repair and 
maintenance services to companies using conveyor belt systems and manufacturing complementary products such as conveyor belt accessories, mill liners, hoses etc. 
Events in the company for generating 
capital in FY 2013 :
The company raised Venture capital of INR 2 Cr from India Opportunities Fund
The ﬁrst company to list on NSE 
Emerge Platform and raised INR 19 Cr through IPOSL is also a wholesaler for T amil Nadu 
Newsprint and Papers Ltd in Gujarat and for Asia Pulp in Gujarat and Rajasthan. Its sticker sheets are used in soap and pharma industries, and stationery business.
It got listed on the NSE Emerge in July 2017. 
Since its listing in FY18, its market cap valuation has increased appoximately 5x in FY20, thereby unlocking value and opening up potentially new funding opportunities and better access to funds.Shrenik Limited (SL) was incorporated in 2012. SL is primarily engaged in the business of trading of different types of papers in Gujarat and Rajasthan through distribution channel. They offer coated papers, notebook papers, photocopy papers, folding box boards, etc.
The company serves customers with variety 
of papers like copier, maplitho, coated paper, FBB Board and a speciality paper commodity royal executive bond.
Besides being a wholesaler they have also 
introduced their own brand. Its customer base is in Gujarat and Rajasthan.
53 Success Stories | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
0800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100INR CRORES428.09796.83
4.18 11.6
TOTAL REVENUE PROFIT AFTER TAXFY 2019-20FY 2016-17 Growth in the company post being listed 
on the NSE Emerge in July 2017
0700
600
500
400
300
200
100INR CRORES
JUL 18 2017 AUG 31 202098478Shrenik
Limited
Approximate Market Capitalisation MARKET CAPITALISATIONVOL operates a manufacturing facility at 
Sarigam Industrial Estate having an installed capacity of 4,800 metric tonnes per annum.
VOL got listed on the SME Board of the BSE 
in the year 2016.
In the year 2017, VOL acquired Abhilasha 
Tex-Chem Pvt. Ltd.Valiant Organics Limited (VOL) was incorporated in 1984.
VOL is a chemical manufacturing company 
mainly engaged in the business of manufacturing and marketing various types of chlorophenols in India. Chlorophenols are mainly used in agro-chemical industry, pharmaceutical industry, dyes industry as well as in manufacturing of cosmetics and veterinary drugs. 
VOL started with exports in the year 2008. 
VOL also offers customised speciﬁcation of Chlorophenols as per the customer needs.55 Success Stories | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Growth in the company post raising equity from FY 2016 to FY 2020
03500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500INR CRORES
OCT 14 2016 AUG 31 2020963,307
0800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100INR CRORES
53.47696.31
10.31140.53
TOTAL REVENUE PROFIT AFTER TAXFY 2019-20FY 2015-16
Valiant
OrganicsLimited
Approximate Market Capitalisation MARKET CAPITALISATIONIn 2012, Pragati India Fund, a fund managed 
by Pragati India Asset Management via P .I. International L P , invested INR 22.75 Cr in JEL.
JEL has 5 wholly owned subsidiaries such as 
Shivpad Engineers Pvt Ltd in Chennai, India, Jash USA Inc in Texas, USA, Mahr Maschinenbau GmbH in Vienna, Austria, Engineering & Manufacturing Jash Ltd, in Hong Kong and Rodney Hunt in Texas, USA.
JEL got listed on NSE Emerge in the year 
2017.Jash Engineering Limited (JEL) is a leading member of the Jash Group which was founded by Mr. Jashbhai Patel in the year 1948.
Jash Engineering Ltd is based in Madhya 
Pradesh.
JEL is engaged in manufacturing of wide 
range of products used in water intake systems, water and waste water pumping stations and treatment plants, storm water pumping stations, water transmission lines, power, steel, cement, paper & pulp, petrochemicals, chemical, fertilizers and other process plants.57 Success Stories | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Jash
EngineeringLimited
0350
300
250
200
150
100
50INR CRORES161.16285.6
10.0820.09
TOTAL REVENUE PROFIT AFTER TAXFY 2019-20FY 2016-17 Growth in the company post being listed 
on the NSE Emerge in July 2017
160195
190
185
180
175
170
165INR CRORES
OCT 11 2017 AUG 31 2020170189Approximate Market Capitalisation MARKET CAPITALISATIONInc, Zioncom (Hong Kong) Technology Ltd, 
Apple India Private Ltd, Sennheiser Electronics India Private Ltd, Gopro Cooperatief U.A, TPV Technology India Private Ltd, Printronix, SIEPL India Electronics Private Ltd, Vintron Informatics Ltd and Samsung India Electronics Private Ltd.
CPDL got listed on NSE Emerge platform in 
the year 2017. Since its listing in FY17, its market cap valuation has increased approx. 3x in FY20, thereby unlocking value and opening up potentially new funding opportunities and better access to funds.
Creative Peripherals Distribution Limited (CPDL) was incorporated in 1992.
CPDL distributes consumer electronics to 
retailers and resellers in India. It distributes IT, imaging, lifestyle, and telecom products.
CPDL is a broad based distribution model 
which is based on multiple products and multiple brand strategy.
It has partnered with a number of 
renowned brands for distribution in the country such as Rapoo Technologies Ltd, Lino Manfrotto + Co S.p.a, Transcend Information Inc, ViewSonic International Corporation, Olympus Corporation, Belkin59 Success Stories | A Guide for Raising Equity Investment by MSMEs
Creative
PeripheralsDistributionLimited
0500
400
300
200
100INR CRORES212.01459.06
1.37.78
TOTAL REVENUE PROFIT AFTER TAXFY 2019-20FY 2016-17 Growth in the company post being listed 
on the NSE Emerge in 2017
20160
140
120
100
80
60
40INR CRORES
APR 12 2017 AUG 31 202048145Approximate Market Capitalisation MARKET CAPITALISATIONSIDBI Venture Capital Limited
Small Industries Development Bank of India
Swavalamban Bhavan, C-11, G-Block, 2nd Floor,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai 400 051
info@sidbiventure.co.in
www.sidbiventure.co.in 