  
SCO Knowledge Bank  
 
Republic of India  
Startup Ecosystem  
2 | P a g e  
 
Table of Contents  
Indian Startup Startup Ecosystem  ................................ ................................ ...... 3 
Institutional support to startups  ................................ ................................ .........  3 
Initiatives to foster innovation and entrepreneurship  ................................ ..........  4 
Government and International Market Access  ................................ .....................  6 
Incubation and Acceleration Support  ................................ ................................ .. 7 
Funding Support  ................................ ................................ ................................  8 
Mentorship Support ................................ ................................ ............................  9 
Capacity -buildin g Initiatives for enablers  ................................ ............................  9 
Contact Details  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 10 
 
  3 | P a g e  
 
Indian Startup Ecosystem  
 
57,000+  Number of Startups1  
700+  Incubators/Accelerators  
USD 75+ Bn  Startup Funding 
11 Direct Jobs per  Startup  
 
 
Institutional support to startups  
 
India has favorable demography, open economic environment, and culture of 
entrepreneurialism, Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched 
Startup India along with an Action Plan  on January 16th, 2016 intending to 
catalyse startup culture and build a strong and inclusive ecosystem for 
innovation and entrepreneurship driving sustainable economic growth and 
generating large -scale employment opportunities in India. The 19 -point Action 
Plan focuses both on restricting hindrances and promoting faster growth by 
way of (i) Simplification and Handholding (ii) Funding Support and Incentives 
and (iii) Industry -Academia Partnership and Incu bation.  
During  this period,  India  got its legal definition  of the startup  as prescribed  
under  G.S.R.  notification 127 (E) by the DPIIT,  Governme nt of India.  DPIIT  
recognized  startups  receive numerous incentives such as self -certification of 
 
1 as of 13th October  2021  
Early Traction
17%
Validation
35%Ideation
33%Scaling
15%4 | P a g e  
 
labor & environmental laws, rebate on patent  and trademarks,  expedited  IPR 
support,  easier  public  procurement  norms,  etc. To encourage the growth of 
startups, an amendment to the Income Tax Act was made  that permits an 
eligible startup to receive a 100 percent income tax exemption for 3 years. 
Furthermore, one of the most significant accomplishments was enacting the 
Angel Tax Amendment, which established a mechanism to claim exemption on 
tax levied on cap ital raised beyond fair market  value.  
The Startup India Hub , a one -stop online platform, was launched to allow all 
stakeholders in the startup eco system to communicate with each other, 
exchange knowledge, and collaborate in a vibrant environment. In addition, the 
Hub attempts to have a knowledge bank comprising Government schemes and 
initiatives, industry reports, and free tools.  
Furthermore, the Go vernment has undertaken 49 regulatory reforms 
specifically tailored  for players  in the startup  space  to enable  ease of doing  
business,  ease of raising capital and lessen the compliance burden on  them.  
 
Initiatives to foster innovation and entrepreneurship  
 
Entrepreneurship and innovation have always been identified as crucial 
components for economic growth. Over the last few years, the Government has 
undertaken several initiatives to foster a culture of entrepreneurship and 
startups in the country. As part of Startup  India’s  awareness  and outreach  
plan,  DPIIT  launched the  Startup India Yatra  to reach out to startups in every 
district of the country and encouraged entrepreneurs in realizing their startup 
dream. The Startup India mobile van traveled around states, covering over 236 
districts in 23 states and reaching out to over 78,000 prospective 
entrepreneurs.  5 | P a g e  
 
The National Startup Awards , an annual exercise, was conceived and 
launched by the Government  to recognize  and rewards  startups  and enablers  
passionate  for invention  and to promote growth and innovation within the 
startup ecosystem. Winner and finalists of the awards receive not only 
monetary benefits but also handholding across 8+ pillars of support essential 
for startups.  
Further to facilitate and encourage the startup ecosystem in States  and UTs, 
the Government has undertaken an annual exercise, the States' Startup 
Rankings . The initiative  is an evolved  evaluation  tool aimed  to strengthen  the 
support  of States  and UTs to holistically build their startup ecosystems. The 
first two editions of the Ranking Framework successfully provided insight into 
the scale and scope of State -driven initiatives and enabled mutual learning 
amongst ecosystem  stakeholders.  
To commemorate 5 yea rs of Startup India, the Government of India hosted the 
Prarambh : Startup India International Summit to position India's 
entrepreneurial  spirit on the global map. The objective was to inspire the youth 
for innovation and entrepreneurship, mobilize global a nd domestic capital, and 
provide opportunities for entering international markets. Over 1.2 lakh 
registrations from 56 nations were  received for the two -day summit, which 
brought together some of the brightest entrepreneurial minds from India and 
around the world. An exceptional set of ideas and collaborations were explored 
to lay the foundation for the next wave of startup growth, not only in India but 
globally as  well. 
To provide a platform to startups to showcase innovations, an online discovery  
platform, Startup India Showcase , for the most promising startups of the 
country chosen  through various DPIIT and Startup India programs exhibited in 
a form of v irtual profiles has been created. The startups showcased on the 6 | P a g e  
 
platform have distinctly emerged as the best in their fields. These innovations 
have been handpicked by experts and have gone  through multiple rounds of 
screening and  evaluation.  
 
Government a nd International Market Access  
 
The Government has developed a lucrative platform called Government 
eMarketplace (GeM) to enable small traders and manufacturers to offer their 
products and services to important  purchasers  from the Government  sector  or 
PSUs.  To onboard  budding  startups and reach out to Government Buyers, the 
Government has launched an interactive project, the GeM Startup Runway , 
promoting entrepreneurship through innovation and providing a level playing 
field to startups vis -à-vis the experienced companies in public procurement. In 
addition, Startup Runway allows entrepreneurs to obtain exemptions on prior  
experience,  prior turnover,  and earnest  money  deposit  requirements,  feedback  
from Government entities, and market valuation from potential buyers and  
investors.  
Furthermore,  the Government  has made  a provision  for startups  to register  on 
the Central  Public Procurement Portal (CPPP) , an online  portal  to publish  all 
procurement  requests, to become preferred bidders in public orders, and 
benefit from the aforementioned exemptions.  
Expanding a business to a new international market is a significant challenge 
for entrepreneurs and requires a significant amount of resources. Startup India 
launched Startup International Bridges , a soft-landing  platform  that would  
connect  Indian  startups with the global market and assist in bringing global 
startups to India. It has also  established a network of mentors, venture 
capitalists, incubators, and accelerators that benefitted the global startup 
ecosystems. To date, 11 partner countries have signed on, including  Portugal,  7 | P a g e  
 
Israel,  Japan,  Sweden,  Singapore,  Finland,  Korea,  Russia,  the United Kingdom,  
the Netherlands,  and Germany,  and stakeholders  from startup  ecosystems  are 
benefiting  greatly.  
 
Incubation and Acceleration Support  
 
To encourage social entrepreneurship and innovation among the country's 
youth, NITI Aayog launched the Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) and a 
mechanism known as Self Employment and Talent Utilization (SETU). So far, 
AIM identified 86 incubators around the country for financial assistance, and 
68 of these incubators have received grants totaling more than INR 200 crore. 
Moreover, within the first three years, the Atal Incubation Centers nurtured 
1,250+ startups, 500+ of wh ich were led by women, and onboarded 1,000+ 
mentors to guide startups.  
Additionally, to leverage the resources of India's top technical and R&D 
institutes, the Government  established  the Technology Business Incubators 
(TBI) , which  provide  an integrated  package  of their resources  such as 
workspace,  shared  office  services,  access to specialized equipment, legal 
services, networking support, etc. The primary goal of TBIs is to foster an 
innovative mindset among technology -based entrepreneurs in the country and 
the Government has sanctioned approximately 150 such TBIs so  far. 
To promote innovation through incubation and collaborative R&D efforts 
between academics and industry, th e Government planned to establish 
Research Parks . 8 new Research Parks have been identified for development at 
7 IITs and IISc Bangalore, with a total of INR 575 crore sanctioned and INR 250 
crore already disbursed.  
Furthermore, the Government crafted the National Innovation and Startup 8 | P a g e  
 
Policy to actively involve students and faculty at Higher Education Institutions 
(HEIs) in innovation and entrepreneurship -related activities. Also, to support 
the formation of a robust innovation and startup ecosystem among  HEIs in 
terms of IP ownership and technology licensing. From around 3.2 lakh 
submissions received from schools, approximately 50,000 ideas were 
shortlisted to prepare a project and participate in the District Level Exhibition 
& Project Competition (DLEPC) . 
 
Funding Support  
 
For entrepreneurs, the ready availability of capital is a critical aspect in 
growing their business – many business ideas fail due to a lack of capital. To 
address this issue, the Government has established the Startup India Seed 
Fund Scheme  (SISFS) with a budget of INR 945 crore to provide financial 
support to startups for Proof of Concept, Prototype Development, Product 
Trials, Market Entry, and Commercialization, resulting in job creation. SISFS 
will be distributed to qualifying startups through approved incubators  across  
India,  and it will support  an estimated  3,600  entrepreneurs  through  300 
incubators over the next few  years.  
The Government  has instituted  access  to a large capital  of funds  for startups  
through  the scheme Fund of Funds  (FFS). The aim is to inspire 
entrepreneurship by providing indirect funding to budding startups via 
Venture Capital (VC) Funds active in the Indian startup ecosystem. FFS gives 
capital to SEBI -registered Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs), often known as 
daughter funds managed by SIDBI, who invest in high -potential Indian  
startups.  
 
 9 | P a g e  
 
Mentorship Support  
 
Startup India launched Startup India's Learning and Development Program  
to motivate individuals and teach the foundations of entrepreneurship to 
startup aspirants/early -stage startups. The learning program includes  courses 
on important aspects  of businesses  from 40+ top founders  that are available  in 
both English  and Hindi.  
Women -owned businesses are playing an important role in society, 
encouraging others and creating more job opportunities in the country. 
Through different laws and programms, the Government is committed to 
strengthening the women's entrepreneurial ecosystem . The Women Capacity 
Development Program (WING) addresses capacity development for women -led 
businesses by disseminating information about initiatives, training, and 
providing a platform for startups. A total of 21 capacity -building workshops 
were held in 9 states, benefiting over 1150 female entrepreneurs. In addition, a 
Virtual Incubation  Program  for Women  Entrepreneurs  was launched  in 
cooperation  with Zone Startups  to provide  pro-bono  acceleration  support  to 20 
women -led tech startups  for three months.  
Capacity -building Initiatives for enablers  
 
Adequate  support  and mentoring  at various  stages  of the business  lifecycle  are 
essential for  a new idea to become  a successful  commercial  venture.  Incubators  
play a crucial  role in identifying and supporting early -stage entrepreneurs 
throughout their  existence.  
To energise the startup ecosystem, the Government annually hosts the Startup 
India  Global Venture Capital Summit  – a summit attended by fund managers 
and limited partners from top global venture capital fir ms. The summit's goal is 10 | P a g e  
 
to mobilize global capital for innovation in India, allowing Indian startups to 
meet top global investors for advisory support and to discuss investment 
prospects.  
The Government has collaborated with numerous private organizations  to hold 
startup challenges to increase competitiveness and involve entrepreneurs in 
supporting the Government's efforts. The Startup Grand Challenges have also 
directed the Government and private -sector agencies to collaborate with 
startups in the spirit of innovation  and entrepreneurship.  Since  2017,  DPIIT  
has organised  10+ grand  challenges in partnership with other Ministries and 
public organisations, with the winners receiving significant  prizes.  
 
Contact Details  
Startup India  
sco.startup@investindia.org.in  
https:// www.startupindia.gov.in/  
1800 115 565  
@startupindia  
 
