Frequently Asked Questions Startups Incubators THE SCHEME AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA v The Scheme and Eligibility Criteria What is Startup India Seed Fund Scheme? Who can apply to SISFS? How much seed funding can a startup receive under the scheme? Can I apply for the scheme as an individual entrepreneur, or do I need a team? Does the scheme support startups from specific sectors? Are there any minimum education qualification criteria for founders to apply for SISFS? Are there any exemptions to any of the eligibility criteria? What is a DPIIT-recognized startup? Oo © © © © © © © © What all can I use the seed fund for? Application Process i) How can I apply to SISFS? Is the SISFS application process completely online? 1/3 Is there a fee for applying to this scheme? Why is the application form allowing me to apply to 3 incubators? How do I choose the incubators to apply to? Oo © ®© © I can see an option to apply either for a grant or convertible debenture or loan instruments. What is the difference between these? How do I choose? What are the terms and conditions of seed fund under the scheme? Is the information provided by me in the application form kept confidential? Do I need to be physically present at an incubator's’ premises to avail seed funds under this scheme? oO ®©8 © © Can I apply to the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme again after receiving a rejection? Evaluation Process Who is going to review my application? What are the parameters for evaluation of startup applicants? What is the process of evaluation? How much time will it take for my application to get processed? Oo © © © @ How can I track the status of my application? After Selection of Startups i) Ihad filled an order of preference for incubators while applying. Can I change this preference order after application? Ihave been selected for seed fund, but the quantum of fund/ terms and conditions being set by the incubator are not agreeable to me. What should I do? I need to hire a legal or financial consultant for my seed fund discussions with the incubator. Who will bear the cost of these services? 2/3 Ihave been selected for seed fund. Is it mandatory to sign a legal agreement with the incubator? Ihad applied for a certain amount of seed fund, but the approved amount is lower/higher. Can I negotiate this? Will my living expenses be borne if I want to be physically incubated at the incubator that is funding me? How much time will it take for the first installment of the seed fund to be released to me? Where can I receive the seed funds? How often do I have to report back my progress after receiving seed fund? I have been selected for seed fund, but I would not like to take the process forward. What do I do? What if my startup fails after receiving the seed fund? Will there be any liability on me or my company? Ihave some complaints regarding the incubator funding me. Who shall I reach out to? About Help Startup India F.A.Q. Startup India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS) Glossary Objectives Contact Us Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) Eligibility Criteria Join Subscribe to our Newsletters Start . amp email@seedfund.com SUBSCRIBE! Incubator Follow us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2021 Startup India Seed Fund Scheme. All rights reserved. Oo © © © © © © © © 4 e) ao] Disclaimer 3/3